And in production to the book of Titus, the Apostle Paul's inspired letter to Titus was written about 61 to 64 CE.
Paul may have written it in Macedonia sometime after his first imprisonment in Rome.
Evidently after his release, Paul served with Titus in Crete.
After the Apostle left, Titus remained.
Titus had a difficult assignment in Crete.
As a whole, the people there had a reputation for dishonesty, laziness, and gluttony.
Those bad trades had influenced some in the congregation.
So in his letter, Paul asked Titus to correct problems in the congregations in Crete and to appoint qualified men to serve as elders.
The letter to Titus has three chapters.
Chapter 1 sets out the spiritual qualifications for congregation elders.
Paul then tells Titus to approve a severity those who tried to mislead their brothers.
The deceivers include rebellious men, prophetless talkers, and those who insist on adherence to circumcision.
In Chapter 2, Paul sets out many of the fine qualities that should be displayed by Christian men and women, including slaves.
Paul encourages Titus by telling him to speak and act with full authority, adding,
do not let anyone look down on you.
Did you know?
As shown by Titus' record as a Christian overseer, he could be entrusted with delicate and difficult assignments.
He was courageous, firm, loving, and evidently a good organizer.
Paul was confident that Titus would do a fine job in Crete.
In Chapter 3, Paul tells Titus to remind the Christians in Crete to obey the secular authorities, to be reasonable, not quarrelsome, and to display mildness toward all.
Finally, Paul instructs Titus to avoid foolish arguments and fights over the law of Moses, and to reject anyone who persists in promoting a sect.
As you read the letter to Titus, note how Christian overseers should courageously address problems in the congregation.
How God's spirit can draw people from all backgrounds and help them to develop a Christ-like personality,
and how the bad traits that characterize Satan's world should be rejected by all subjects of God's kingdom.